GiANT is a graphical interface for working with number fields
![GiANT
logo](./GiANT%20-%20Graphical%20Algebra%20System_files/title.png)GiANT: 
Graphical Algebraic Number Theory\
\
 GiANT is a graphical interface for working with number fields. It is
written in Java 1.4 and runs on top of the computer algebra system [KASH
2.5](http://www.math.tu-berlin.de/~kant/kash.html).\
 \
 Motivation\
 Algorithms for dedicated computer algebra systems have developed
rapidly. Nevertheless, user interfaces for these feature-rich systems
have traditionally focused on command-line interaction. GiANT is a
graphical user interface for computer algebra. It dynamically creates
interactive diagrams, typesets formulas, and supports drag-and-drop
manipulation of elements and polynomials. The result is a visual
workspace designed to support mathematical intuition and reduce
cognitive load versus text-only algebra systems.\
 \
 Screenshots, video\
 Screen shots of [towers of
fields](http://giantsystem.sourceforge.net/images/tower.png) and
[working with the class
group](http://giantsystem.sourceforge.net/images/classGroup.png). \
 Video clips of [building towers of
fields](http://giantsystem.sourceforge.net/images/towers.mov) and
[working with fields using
drag-and-drop](http://giantsystem.sourceforge.net/images/drag-and-drop.mov).\
 \
 Paper, history\
 If you use GiANT for research or development, please cite the paper: 
[GiANT: Graphical Algebraic Number
Theory](http://jtnb.cedram.org/cedram-bin/article/JTNB_2006__18_3_721_0.pdf),
[Aneesh Karve](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~karve/) and [Sebastian
Pauli](http://www.math.tu-berlin.de/~pauli/), [Journal of Number
Theory--Bordeaux
(JTNB)](http://almira.math.u-bordeaux.fr/jtnb/jtnb_english.html) , Tome
18, no. 3 (2006), p. 721-727.\
 \
 GiANT was introduced at the [MP60 Number Theory
Conference](http://www.math.tu-berlin.de/~kant/MP60/), Technical
University of Berlin, 10 June 2005. GiANT was featured at [Algebra and
Computation 2005](http://tnt.math.metro-u.ac.jp/ac/2005/index.en.html),
Tokyo Metropolitan University, 16 November 2005.\
 \

[Downloads](https://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=141452),
[documentation](https://sourceforge.net/docman/?group_id=141452) and
more can be found at the [SourceForge home for
GiANT](http://sourceforge.net/projects/giantsystem/)\
 GiANT should run on Java 1.4 or higher. It has been tested on Mac OS X
and some pure UNIX flavors, but not so much on Windows. GiANT requires a
working installation of [KASH
2.5](http://www.math.tu-berlin.de/~kant/download.html), which is free.\
 \
 Future development\
 Future development will be driven by the community. Possibilities
include:  generalize GiANT to function with a wider variety of computer
algebra systems. See the concluding remarks in the
[paper](http://jtnb.cedram.org/cedram-bin/article/JTNB_2006__18_3_721_0.pdf)
for more ideas.\
 \
 GiANT source is open under the GNU General Public License (GPL).
Interested developers can contact the project admin(s) via the
[SourceForge home for
GiANT](http://sourceforge.net/projects/giantsystem/).\
 \
 Acknowledgments\
 Special thanks to the [German Academic Exchange
(DAAD)](http://www.daad.org/) and the [KANT Group at
TU-Berlin](http://www.math.tu-berlin.de/~kant) for their support during
the creation of GiANT.\
\
 GiANT is hosted by
[SourceForge](http://sourceforge.net/).[![sourceforge
logo](./GiANT%20-%20Graphical%20Algebra%20System_files/sflogo.php)](http://sourceforge.net/)

* * * * *

GiANT is Copyright (c) 2005 [Aneesh
Karve](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~karve/) ![Aneesh's
email](./GiANT%20-%20Graphical%20Algebra%20System_files/creatorEmail.png).
GiANT was co-designed by [Sebastian Pauli](http://www.math.tu-berlin.de/~pauli/) 
